docs: make healthcheck page top level doc (#6898)
GoogleContainerTools/skaffold: docs/content/en/docs/pipeline-stages/healthcheck.md

---
title: "Deploy Healthchecks"
linkTitle: "Deploy Healthchecks"
weight: 50
featureId: deploy.status_check
aliases: [/docs/how-tos/healthchecks]
---

> This page describes how skaffold runs healthchecks for deployed resources - waits for them to stabilize, and reports errors on failure.

Reviewer: My real suggestion is:
```suggestion
Skaffold's _deployment status checking_ waits for deployed resources to become ready, and reports errors if they fails to stabilize within a certain time period.
```

### Overview

> Commands that trigger a deployment like `skaffold dev`, `skaffold deploy`, `skaffold run`, and `skaffold apply` perform a `healthcheck` for select Kubernetes resources and wait for them to be stable.

Reviewer: Don't use verbatim mode for "healthcheck" as it risks confusion with Docker's image `HEALTHCHECK` extension.
```suggestion
Commands that trigger a deployment, like `skaffold dev`, `skaffold deploy`, `skaffold run`, and `skaffold apply`, monitor select Kubernetes resources and wait for them to become ready.
```

Skaffold supports the following resource types for monitoring status after creation in the cluster:
* [`Pod`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
* [`Deployment`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) 
* [`Stateful Sets`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) 
* [`Google Cloud Config Connector resources`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/overview)

{{<alert title="Note">}}
`healthcheck` is enabled by default; it can be disabled with the `--status-check=false`
flag, or by setting the `statusCheck` field of the deployment config stanza in
the `skaffold.yaml` to false.

If there are multiple skaffold `modules` active, then setting `statusCheck` field of the deployment config stanza will only disable healthcheck for that config. However using the `--status-check=false` flag will disable it for all modules.
{{</alert>}}

> To determine if a `Deployment` or `StatefulSet` resource is up and running, Skaffold relies on `kubectl rollout status` to obtain its status. For standalone `Pods` it checks that the pod and its containers are in a `Ready` state.

Reviewer: This description is necessary but is buried here.  Should either move it into the list above or create a separate table.

```bash
Waiting for deployments to stabilize
 - default:deployment/leeroy-app Waiting for rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...
 - default:deployment/leeroy-web Waiting for rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...
 - default:deployment/leeroy-web is ready. [1/2 deployment(s) still pending]
 - default:deployment/leeroy-app is ready.
Deployments stabilized in 2.168799605s

> ```

Reviewer: Document that logs are suppressed until the status checks pass.  If the user needs the detailed logs to diagnose a status failure, they should use `--status-check=false`.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: getting-started
spec:
  progressDeadlineSeconds: 300
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: cannot-run
        image: gcr.io/k8s-skaffold/getting-started-foo
```

if the `skaffold.yaml` overrides the deadline to make sure deployment stabilizes in a 60 seconds,

```yaml
apiVersion: skaffold/v1
deploy:
  statusCheckDeadlineSeconds: 60
  kubectl:
    manifests:
    - k8s-*
```

Running `skaffold deploy`

```code
skaffold deploy --status-check
```
will result in an error after waiting for 1 minute:

```bash
Tags used in deployment:
Starting deploy...
kubectl client version: 1.11+
kubectl version 1.12.0 or greater is recommended for use with Skaffold
 - deployment.apps/getting-started created
Waiting for deployments to stabilize
 - default:deployment/getting-started Waiting for rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...
 - default:deployment/getting-started failed. Error: received Ctrl-C or deployments could not stabilize within 1m: kubectl rollout status command interrupted.
FATA[0006] 1/1 deployment(s) failed
```

### Configuring `healthchecks` for multiple deployers or multiple modules

> If you define multiple deployers, say `kubectl`, `helm` and `kustomize`, all in the same skaffold config, or compose a multi-config project by importing other configs as dependencies, then the `healthcheck` can be run in one of two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you define multiple deployers, say `kubectl`, `helm`, and `kustomize`, all in the same skaffold config, or compose a multi-config project by importing other configs as dependencies, then the `healthcheck` can be run in one of two ways:
```
